as recently as the last couple of
Olympic Games everyone has been talking
about the magnificent Jamaican sprint
teams little island and what a fabulous
history they've had in sprinting and how
does this little island turn out cemani
so many top-notch sprinters well you see
here's my problem
yesterday word came out that former
100-meter world record holder Asafa
Powell and his Jamaican teammate Jerome
Simpson have both tested positive for
banned stimulants not only that the
American 100-meter record holder the
best sprinter in America a guy called
Tyson Gay has been proved or had tested
positive he failed a drug test and he
admits that he took something he
shouldn't take he said he trusted
somebody and they let him down that's
what he's saying he's not saying who it
is but the best guy in the States is now
dirty not only that another Jamaican
Veronica Campbell Brown just recently
tested positive for a banned diuretic so
that's not my problem that doesn't
surprise me
there they are standing on the track in
front of the eyes of the world there
they are standing on a track in front of
2555 a hundred and five thousand people
who all are giving them a standing
ovation as they're introduced Bravo well
done there are people from nations all
over the world waving their flag I'm so
proud of him he's Jamaican oh I'm so
proud of him he's American or put in
whatever name you want in the blank the
fact that the Safa Powell is her own
Simpson and Veronica Campbell Brown and
Tyson Gay are in the news today under
the latest who have been caught cheating
does not surprise any of us but what
does annoy me and will always annoy me
and I'm telling you you don't know this
but I do because I was involved in this
bloody business day in and day out
trackside with all the athletes that I
got to know
who were training everyday in the
weights room in the gym on the track
watching them grow seeing who was
getting real big real fast
listening to them all being taken into
their confidence as to what they were
using stanozolol
you name it all the different names and
this play in this particular case the
Jamaicans that were caught we're using a
stimulant this time called oxalá Frieden
auxilio freen is the name of this last
one what this one does I do not know I
haven't looked it up yet but the problem
is we know that it is still going on but
what really makes me mad about than
being caught is not what they do to
their own bodies or not the fact they've
been caught because they deserve to be
caught and I understand the temptation
and I understand we've been all through
with Ben Johnson they just say that's
the way life is Charlie Francis told us
this over and over again if you want to
compete you gotta cheat but you see the
damn thing is Canada's got out of its
way with the drug testing program that
we have after the double inquiry to
clean up their act in track and field
you haven't heard much of any Canadians
since the late 1980s 1990s and the
double inquiries effects were felt the
strongest who tested positive in other
words they're running clean their
training clean and their athletes from
the Solomon Islands in Nigeria and Kenya
and all kinds of countries in the world
that I can name you don't have any money
you don't have big colleges behind them
who don't have big sponsors who don't
have athletic associations with millions
of dollars that they can go and get
special training programs vitamins diet
places to workout transportation now
they're out there in the morning at 4
o'clock pull it on their shorts in their
hoody and putting on their running shoes
and going out and doing it themselves in
the dark while you and I are sleeping
because they want to do it for their
country they want to do it for
themselves
they want to test themselves and dammit
er they fit and dammit are they good and
damn Italy talented and damn it - they
deserve our respect and our admiration
and our applause and our hero wish
worship and looking at them as role
models they deserve it because they're
doing it clean and in many cases up
until recent times they're doing it with
no financial reward amateur athletes
have all got jobs
it wasn't until recent times when on the
podium started to come along and they
started to lobby the government
especially when the Olympics came here
to Canada and Vancouver that are
athletes start to get a bit more money
so they could trade not a lot and then
it was up to them and their associations
to rally up sponsors for them and they
did it got better it has gotten better
but I'm telling you as someone who's
been there 95% of our athletes are out
there are clean that's why they aren't
being tested and announced every day I
know there's flaws in the testing system
I know there's cheats out there but the
teacher the five bloody percent that get
caught to get all the press Assaf a
Powell sharone Simpson Tyson Gay
Veronica Campbell Brown the worst part
of all this is that when people hear it
they say oh they're all dirty they're
all cheating well they aren't and that's
what pisses me off about this today and
that's why I'm pissed off by Asif a
Powell sharone Simpson Tyson Gay and
Veronica Campbell Brown Powell helped
the Jamaicans win the 400 meter gold
relay gold in the 2008 Olympics Simpson
Cerrone Simpson won gold in the 400
meter relay in 2004 and she won a silver
in 2012 along with a silver in 2008 took
all the applause we're cheating now it
all comes out then when their teammates
are all going to get stripped to their
medals but the worst part is the
everyone who's clean a bad name and I'm
sick and tired of that and that's why
I'm pissed off with them today